We offer the following NCV Programmes
WHAT IS NCV?
The Department of Education introduced the National Certificate Vocational at public Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Colleges in 2007. The NC(V) offers programmes of study in a variety of vocational field.  The programmes are intended to directly respond to the priority skills demands of the South African economy.

 

Entry Requirements:

A candidate can only register on two consecutive levels in an academic year, i.e. Levels 2 and 3 or Levels 3 and 4, but not on Levels 2 and 4 or all three levels simultaneously.
The full ICASS component is to be completed for all seven subjects offered in an academic year to ensure that tuition is offered even for subjects being repeated and the ICASS component is to retain its currency of 1 academic year.
The same optional vocational subject is to be offered across all three levels by a candidate irrespective of the name change which may take place across Levels 2, 3 and 4.
The National Certificate Vocational is offered at Levels 2, 3 and 4 of the National Qualifications Framework (NQF). The qualification is designed to provide both theory and practical experience in a particular vocational field.  The practical component of the study is offered in a simulated workplace environment. Students have  the opportunity to experience work situations during the period of study.

A learner will qualify for a National Certificate Vocational after completion of all the levels. In order to obtain a National Certificate Vocational a student is required to take a total of 7 subjects. These include 3 fundamental subjects and 4 vocational/compulsory subjects.

The 3 fundamental subjects are:
- English
- Mathematics for engineering courses or Mathematics Literacy for business studies courses
- Life Orientation

The Department of Education also has a bursary scheme attached to this qualification for all learners who enroll for NC(V) and whose applications are successful.

 

CS BARLOW CAMPUS (Motetema)	CN PHATUDI CAMPUS (Praktiseer)
 	 
- Electrical Infrastructure Construction

- Electrical Infrastructure Construction

- Engineering & Related Design

- Engineering & Related Design

- Civil Engineering and Building Construction

- Marketing

- IT & Computer Science

- Management

- Management

 
- Office Administration

 	 
- Finance, Economics and Accounting

 
NCV

LEVEL 2: BUSINESS STUDIES

Gr 11 passed report
LEVEL 2: ENGINEERING STUDIES

Gr 11 report with Maths
LEVEL 3

Passed Level 2 (At least 5 subjects – must enrol for supplementary)
Students can only enrol for 7 subjects in a year
LEVEL 4

Passed Level 2 in all 7 subjects
Passed Level 3 (At least 5 subjects – must enrol for supplementary)
 

What will a student be qualified to do after three years?
Students will essentially have the following options:
-  Access work opportunities in a work environment or a relevant to his/her vocational specialisation
-  Access workplace with the occupational specialisation
-  Decide to progress into higher education
-  Pursue further training to N4, N5 and N6.
-  Go into self-employment

Placement Questionnaire:
Prospective students must complete a placement questionnaire which will assist the student in choosing the correct career path.

Placement tests are written in September - October every year and also in January.  To assure your space you are advised to write the test during September.

Occupational Qualifications
Entry Requirements:
Grade 10 School year-end report or higher

Beauty Therapist
Early Childhood Development Practitioner
Hairdresser
Report 191 Programmes
Learners who have completed a Grade 12 Certificate with a minimum of a Higher Certificate and or Diploma achievement may consider studying further at a TVET College for a National Diploma. The Report 191 (NATED) N4-N6 Programmes, also known as ALTERNATIVE POST SCHOOL PROGRAMMES, are offered in Engineering, Business and Utility Studies. 

WHO MAY ENROL FOR THE REPORT 191 (NATED) PROGRAMMES?

Candidates must have a Grade 12 (NSC) • Enrolment in the N4 – N6 Engineering Programmes is subject to candidates having passed the relevant school subjects • New students must enrol for all 4 subjects in the particular field • The number of enrolments in these programmes is subject to the approved DHET prescripts and targets • Students who enrol for N4 – N6 Programmes must comply with the required number of working hours in the relevant field of study before a National N Diploma will be issued (18 months / 2000 hours for semester programmes and 24 months / 2670 hours for trimester programmes.


For the NATED programmes offered by the college, you can browse through the college prospectus for further details.

 

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING REPORT 191 PROGRAMMES:

 

Also available as distance education

 

 

CS BARLOW CAMPUS (Motetema)

 CN PHATUDI CAMPUS (Praktiseer)

 

 

Business  Studies  N4 - N6

Business  Studies  N4 - N6

- Financial Management

 - Financial Management

- Human Resource Management

 - Human Resource Management

- Marketing Management

 - Marketing Management

- Assistant Management

 

 	 
Engineering Studies  N4 - N6

Engineering Studies  N4 - N6

- Civil Engineering

 - Mechanical Engineering

- Electrical Engineering

 - Electrical Engineering

- Mechanical Engineering

 - Mechanical Engineering

ENTRY REQUIREMENTS
 	 
Business Studies

Engineering

N4: National Senior Certificate

N1 Civil: Grade 12 with either a fail in Maths or a pass in Maths Literacy

N5: N4 or an equivalent qualification

N1 Electrical & Mechanical: Grade 12 with a pass in Maths

N6: N5 or an equivalent qualification

N4: N3 or a Technical Senior Certificate

.

N5: N4 or an equivalent qualification

 

N6: N5 or an equivalent qualification

.	 
Course duration is a semester per level (Jan-Jun and Jul-Nov)	Course duration is a trimester per level (Jan-Apr, May-Aug and Sep-Nov)
